## MSc Major Research Project
**Improving cell type annotation of healthy liver single cell transcriptomes using hierarchical progressive learning method**

*Abstract* \
Cell type annotation in single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) studies have been limited since the clustering of cell populations is often manually done and not consistent across studies. Having such variation and inherent subjectivity hinders establishing a collective knowledge of the field. Immunological events in the healthy human liver, in the context of the difference between chronic hepatitis B patients and the acute resolvers, appear particularly important. 
Here we investigate the healthy human liver cells from five independent studies and attempt to computationally learn cellular hierarchies using a hierarchical progressive learning method (scHPL). The experiment scheme of this study is set up to examine the impacts from the number of anchors for integration, input order of datasets in training phase, and algorithm. 
The best performing scHPL classifier is built with linear SVM where datasets were integrated with 5,000 anchors, then sorted from a higher resolution of cell type annotations to lower resolution, and finally fed to the algorithm in that order (the number of removed populations: 0, hF1: 0.746, ARI: 0.062). It correctly predicts majority of biliary cells and mature hepatocytes in the test dataset when differences in nomenclature of the cluster labels and two developmental roots in biliary cells are considered. I suggest it as possible cellular hierarchy of the healthy human liver as the three main branches, hepatocytes, lymphocytes and monocytes, are in line with current knowledge. However, the evaluating metrics revealed flaws in assessing the performance of scHPL classifiers, especially when predefined tree is not available, and no standard nomenclature is established. While the prediction power of scHPL can be improved, it is a promising approach for learning hierarchy among heterogeneous cell types of the human liver. Understanding the transcriptomic landscape of the healthy liver would improve our knowledge for investigating other physiological states of the liver.
